Do Not Murder

Mr. Gregory is a high school teacher. One day, he tells his students that they will do a special activity. They will not need their books and they will not write anything down.
"As you know, we have seen some very sad stories on the news lately," Mr. Gregory says. "I want us all to think about some very important topics."
Mr. Gregory divides the class into two even groups. "Your group is your gang," the teacher explains to his class. "That means you are very close friends and you will do anything to protect each other."
The students in each group smile at each other. It is true that they are all very good friends.
"Now," Mr. Gregory continues, "there is a problem in your neighborhood, so you must meet the other gang. The other gang is your enemy."
The students laugh a little. It sounds silly because they all get along so well. But Mr. Gregory looks very serious, and he is a good teacher. The students all try to focus on the activity and play their roles well.
Mr. Gregory explains that the problem in the neighborhood causes the two gangs to get into a fight. Reaching behind his desk, he picks up a bag and tells each of the students to take a piece of paper from it.
Most of the pieces of paper are white, but there is one that is red. Erica, one of the students, looks at the red piece of paper in her hand. She smiles, wondering if maybe she has won a prize.
"Erica, please leave the classroom and close the door. Wait outside," Mr. Gregory instructs.
The students are very confused. Erica feels a little uncomfortable, but she leaves the room and closes the door behind her.
"Erica has been very unlucky," Mr. Gregory says to the class. "She has been killed in the gang violence. Please look around."
Without saying a word, the students all look at each other. Erica is missing, and they all feel strange without her there. She always says funny things and makes them laugh. The room feels too quiet.
"I want you to imagine how you would feel if you never saw Erica again, if she never ever came back to class," Mr. Gregory explains.
All the students are quiet. It feels so sudden and wrong. They understand their teacher's lesson: people must never murder each other. When the teacher brings Erica back into the room, all her classmates hug her and explain the end of the activity. What a relief that she is really okay!
